---
School: Launch School  
Course: RB120 - Object Oriented Programming  
Exercise Set:  OO Basics: Classes and Objects 1  
ExerciseName: [Hello, Sophie! (Part 1](https://launchschool.com/exercises/1239fa0d)  
FileName: ex05.md  
Answered On: 07/15/2021  
---

Using the code from the previous exercise, add a parameter to #initialize that provides a name for the Cat object. Use an instance variable to print a greeting with the provided name. (You can remove the code that displays I'm a cat!.)

```ruby
class Cat
  def initialize(name)
    @name = name
    puts "Hello! My name is #{@name}!"
  end
end

kitty = Cat.new('Sophie')
```
`Instance variables` are variables prepended with one `@` symbol to their name. They are variables that belong to one object and are scoped at the object level. `Instance variables` can only be referenced once the object has been initialized and exists so long as the object instance exists. Every object has a unique state and instance variables are responsible for keeping track of information about the state of an object. 

To assign a name whenever we instantiate a `Cat` object, we need to modify the `initialize` method by adding a `name` parameter.  This allows the `initialize` method to accept the value of the argument passed in when we invoke `Cat.new("Sophie")` and assign it to the `@name` instance variable.

Since the `@name` instance variable now points to the value `Sophie`, we can use it within the object to output the `Cat` object's name.  We use `#puts` along with string interpolation which contains the `@name` instance variable which outputs the value of the argument that was first passed in to the initialize method when the object was instantiated.
