---
Source: [Launch School](https://launchschool.com)
Course: RB120
Resource: [Object Oriented Programming With Ruby](https://launchschool.com/books/oo_ruby)
Created: 04/06/2021
---
# The Object Model

> Mneumonic: OOP - A - PIE
Object Oriented Programming - Abstraction - Polymorphism - Inheritance - Encapsulation

## Why Object Oriented Programming
Created to deal with the complexities of large software systems. Its a way to section off areas of a program into small pieces that interact with each other rather than depend on each other.  This way one can edit these individual components without breaking other areas of the program.

### Encapsulation
> A way to prevent users from modifying data **unintentionally**. This is accomplished by hiding certain methods and exposing specific methods (interfaces) that user can call/invoke to manipulate objects that represent your data.

### Polymorphism
> Poly => many | morphism => forms) Is a way for different types of data to respond to same method calls.  For example, humans, dogs, cats, all have the ability to speak.  

* `Inheritance` - The concept where a class inherits the behaviors of a **superclass** Which by creating generic classes, they can be reused more broadley while the more granular level methods can be defined in a **subclass**
* `superclass` - contains more generic behaviors
* `subclass` - contains behaviors at a more granular level.
* `module` - Used to add polymorphic behavior to a program.  Acts similar to a class with a difference that you cannot create an object.  
* `mixin` - A way to mix in or include a module with a class using the **include method**


## What are Objects
> Anything that can be said to have a value is an object. Objects are instantiated from a class.
* `Object Types` - Strings, Numbers, Booleans, Arrays, Hashes, Classes, Modules, etc.
* `Non-Objects Type Examples` - Methods, blocks, and variables, etc.

## Classes Define Objects
* Classes are where Ruby defines attributes and behaviors of an object. 
* They are the blueprints of what an object should be made of and what it should be able to do.

```ruby
1  # FileName: good_dog.rb
2  
3  # Here we create a class GoodDog
4  Class GoodDog
6     # attributes
      # methods
7  end
8
9  sparky = GoodDog.new  
```
**IMPORTANT!** We instantiate an object called sparky by invoking the `new` method from the GoodDog class 

##  Modules
> Another way to achieve polymorphism in Ruby. It's a collection of behaviors that is usable in other classes via mixins, that is by calling them using the `include` method invocation. For example, you can create one module called `Speak` and then include it in multiple classes. They allows us to group code into one place. They are also used in namespace.

```ruby
module Speak
   def speak(sound)
      puts sound
   end
end

class GoodDog
   # attributes
   # methods
   include Speak
end

class HumanBeing
   # attributes
   # methods
   include Speak
end

sparky = GoodDog.new
sparky.speak("Arf!)
bob = HumanBeing.new
bob.speak("Hello!")
```

### Method Lookup
> The lookup path that Ruby follows whenever a method is invoked.
* `ancestors` use the this method on any class to find out the method lookup chain. It works with both mixins and class inheritance. 

```ruby
module Speak
  def speak(sound)
    puts "#{sound}"
  end
end

class GoodDog
  include Speak
end

class HumanBeing
  include Speak
end

puts "---GoodDog Ancestors"
puts GoodDog.ancestors
puts ""
puts "---Human Being Ancestors"
puts HumanBeing.ancestors
```
